Release notes v0.36 — error estimation section (#5601)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/releases/changelog-0.36.0.md

<h4>Estimate errors in a quantum circuit 🧮</h4>

* This version of PennyLane lays the foundation for error estimation. [(#5154)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5154)[(#5464)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5464)[(#5465)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5465)

>   * For example, track the spectral norm error of custom operations by using the new `SpectralNormError` class and the error tracking functionality in `qml.specs` and `qml.Tracker`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * For algorithmic-level usecases it is useful to specify a custom operation representing a
    major building block of the algorithm. This building block can have an error attached but
    does not require a decomposition or matrix representation:
```

>   ```python
>   import pennylane as qml
>   from pennylane.resource.error import ErrorOperation, SpectralNormError
> 
>   class XWithError(ErrorOperation):
>       def __init__(self, error_val, wires):
>           self.error_val = error_val
>           super().__init__(wires=wires)
>       def error(self):
>           return SpectralNormError(self.error_val)
>       
>       @staticmethod
>       def compute_matrix(*params, **hyperparams):
>           return np.array([[0,1],[1,0]])
>       
>   dev = qml.device('default.qubit', wires=2)
>   @qml.qnode(dev)
>   def circuit():
>       XWithError(0.1,[0])
>       XWithError(0.2,[1])
>       return qml.state()
>   ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
    ```python
    import pennylane as qml
    from pennylane.resource.error import ErrorOperation, SpectralNormError

    class XWithError(ErrorOperation):
        def __init__(self, error_val, wires):
            self.error_val = error_val
            super().__init__(wires=wires)
        def error(self):
            return SpectralNormError(self.error_val)

    dev = qml.device("default.qubit")

    @qml.qnode(dev)
    def circuit():
        XWithError(0.1,[0])
        XWithError(0.2,[1])
        return qml.state()
    ```
````
Note that devices generally no longer need to have the number of wires specified.

>   Using `qml.specs` on this circuit returns the additive spectral norm error:
>   ```pycon
>   >>> qml.specs(circuit)()['errors']
>   {'SpectralNormError': SpectralNormError(0.30000000000000004)}
>   ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion

    The total spectral norm error of the circuit can be calculated using `qml.specs`:

    ```pycon
    >>> qml.specs(circuit)()['errors']
    {'SpectralNormError': SpectralNormError(0.30000000000000004)}
    ```
````

>   Alternatively, use `qml.Tracker` to obtain these results:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: We can skip the tracker mention here unless we think it's useful?

Author: Not mandatory, committing the suggestion :+1:

>   ```pycon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   >>> with qml.Tracker(dev) as tracker:
>   ...     circuit()
>   >>> tracker['history']['errors']
>   [{'SpectralNormError': SpectralNormError(0.30000000000000004)}]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   * Also track the spectral norm error of supported operations: `QuantumPhaseEstimation` and `TrotterProduct` [(#5278)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5278)[(#5384)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5384)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * PennyLane already includes a number of built-in building blocks like
    `QuantumPhaseEstimation` and `TrotterProduct`, both of which now
    propagate errors that depend upon their input arguments such as
    the number of steps performed in the Trotter product:
    [(#5278)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5278)
    [(#5384)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5384)
```

>   ```python
>   import pennylane as qml
>   dev = qml.device('default.qubit', wires=4)
> 
>   hamiltonian = qml.dot([1.0, 0.5, -0.25], [qml.X(0), qml.Y(0), qml.Z(0)])
> 
>   @qml.qnode(dev)
>   def circuit():
>     qml.TrotterProduct(hamiltonian, time=0.5, order=2)
>     qml.QuantumPhaseEstimation(XWithError(0.1,wires=0),estimation_wires=[1,2,3])
>     return qml.state()
>   ```
> 
>   ```pycon
>   >>> qml.specs(circuit)()['history']
>   {'SpectralNormError': SpectralNormError(1.4708333333333332)}
>   ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
    ```python
    import pennylane as qml
    
    dev = qml.device('default.qubit')
    hamiltonian = qml.dot([1.0, 0.5, -0.25], [qml.X(0), qml.Y(0), qml.Z(0)])

    @qml.qnode(dev)
    def circuit():
        qml.TrotterProduct(hamiltonian, time=0.1, order=2)
        qml.QuantumPhaseEstimation(XWithError(0.01, wires=0), estimation_wires=[1, 2, 3])
        return qml.state()
    ```

    ```pycon
    >>> qml.specs(circuit)()["errors"]
    {'SpectralNormError': SpectralNormError(0.07616666666666666)}
    ```
````

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

  Error estimation can also be combined with resource estimation, allowing you
  to investigate the tradeoff between resources and errors.

```
@DSGuala I'm wondering if we should lean on this even more. We've focused on this part when creating our release illustration.

Author: Yup, I can add a brief example of trading off resources vs errors here.

<h4>Estimate errors in a quantum circuit 🧮</h4>

* This version of PennyLane lays the foundation for estimating the total error
  in a quantum circuit from the combination of individual gate errors.
  [(#5154)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5154)
  [(#5464)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5464)
  [(#5465)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5465)

>   Focusing on the [spectral norm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matrix_norm#Spectral_norm_(p_=_2))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Focusing on the [spectral norm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matrix_norm)
```

  error, it is possible to specify errors in the following operations:

>   * For algorithmic-level usecases it is useful to specify a custom operation representing a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * For algorithmic-level usecases it is useful to create a custom operation representing a
```
